Instructions for BYORDS (#110)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/cloud-tutorials/byod-management.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: Bringing Your Own Database
description: Learn how to bring your own PostgreSQL database to DBOS Cloud
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

In this guide, you'll learn how to bring your own PostgreSQL database instance to DBOS Cloud and deploy your applications to it.

:::info

> This feature is currently only available to [DBOS Pro/Custom plan](https://www.dbos.dev/pricing) subscribers.

Reviewer: I suggest converging on the names for the plans and using them without "/" - so the users know exactly what to buy in order to get the feature. If "Pro" and "Custom" are separate plans then I would spell it out as "Pro or Custom"

:::

### Link Your Database to DBOS Cloud

DBOS Cloud works with any Postgres database as long as it is accessible and properly set up.
First, DBOS Cloud uses a `dbosadmin` role to manage your application deployments and schema migrations.
You need to create a `dbosadmin` role in your Postgres instance that has the `LOGIN`, `CREATEDB` and `CREATEROLE` privileges:

```sql
CREATE ROLE dbosadmin WITH LOGIN CREATEDB CREATEROLE PASSWORD <password>;
```

Next, link your Postgres instance to DBOS Cloud.

> You must choose a database instance name which is 3 to 16 characters long and contain only lowercase letters, numbers and underscores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must choose a database instance name which is 3 to 16 characters long and contains only lowercase letters, numbers and underscores.
```

You will need this database instance name when you register applications.
Run this command and enter the password for the `dbosadmin` role when prompted.

```shell
npx dbos-cloud db link <database-instance-name> -H <database-hostname> 

> ```

Reviewer: Question: do you guys think that users will often want to set a port other than 5432? Should we say something like "you must run on port 5432" or, better, allow them to set the port?

### Enable Time Travel

DBOS Cloud uses [Postgres logical replication](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/logical-replication.html) to capture database history information used in time travel.
For time travel to work with your Postgres instance, you need to enable logical replication and install [wal2json](https://github.com/eulerto/wal2json).

Postgres instances managed by AWS RDS should already have wal2json installed.
Otherwise, you can follow [wal2json installation guide](https://github.com/eulerto/wal2json/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#build-and-install) to enable this on your database.

To enable logical replication, you must configure the PostgreSQL [`wal_level`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/runtime-config-wal.html#GUC-WAL-LEVEL) to `logical` and increase [`max_replication_slots`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/runtime-config-replication.html#GUC-MAX-REPLICATION-SLOTS) to ensure your database has **at least three** open replication slots per DBOS application you intend to deploy:

<Tabs groupId="rds-or-postgres">
  <TabItem value="rds" label="AWS RDS">
Create or edit your database instance's parameter group to set:
```
rds.logical_replication = 1

> max_replication_slots = 10 # Configure as needed (minimum three per DBOS application)

Reviewer: How do I know what is "needed"? If I have 5 instead of 3, what gets better and what is worse? Is it like one per day (just guessing)? I think the doc should say what this means

```
  </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="postgres" label="PostgreSQL">
Edit your [`postgresql.conf`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/config-setting.html#CONFIG-SETTING-CONFIGURATION-FILE) and add or modify the following lines:

```
wal_level = logical
max_replication_slots = 10 # Configure as needed (minimum three per DBOS application)
```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> You need to restart your database after changing these parameters for the changes to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to restart your RDS instance after changing these parameters for the changes to take effect.
```

> For DBOS Cloud to automatically capture changes and enable time travel, you must give the `dbosadmin` permission to manage replication slots and subscriptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For DBOS Cloud to automatically capture changes and enable time travel, you must grant the `dbosadmin` role permissions to manage replication slots and subscriptions:
```

<Tabs groupId="rds-or-postgres">
  <TabItem value="rds" label="AWS RDS">
```sql
CREATE ROLE dbosadmin WITH LOGIN CREATEDB CREATEROLE PASSWORD <password>;
GRANT rds_replication to dbosadmin;
GRANT pg_create_subscription TO dbosadmin;
```
  </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="postgres" label="PostgreSQL">
```sql
CREATE ROLE dbosadmin WITH LOGIN CREATEDB CREATEROLE REPLICATION PASSWORD <password>;
GRANT pg_create_subscription TO dbosadmin;
```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip

> The `pg_created_subscription` role is added in PostgreSQL version 16. If you wish to use an earlier version, you may grant `dbosadmin` a super user role or [contact us](https://www.dbos.dev/contact) for help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pg_create_subscription` role is added in PostgreSQL version 16. If you wish to use an earlier version, you may grant `dbosadmin` a super user role or [contact us](https://www.dbos.dev/contact) for help.
```
